Our project was creating an interactive webcam program that tracks how the user moves and creates a display that shows the movements in an artsy way. One of our goals was to make the program modular so it is easy to change how the movements are displayed, thus giving the program several modes.
We were able to create 3 distinct preset modes, but also made the code accessible to users such that they can change any variable used in the program to create their own modes. Some of our biggest accomplishments were creating our own classes (colors, pixels and groups) and getting our program to be able to recognize the largest movement on screen.
We have a screen shot of our what our program displays uploaded in our GitHub repository.
We split our program into controller, model, and view. The webcam is the controller, the bulk of the program that locates movements is the model and the different modes that color the movement in different ways are the display. To help with organization we mostly worked with three classes: color, pixel and group. Although it was helpful to have custom classes most of our errors came from class shenanigans and at several points in the project we questioned whether just using lists would have been easier. If we redid the project we would consider condensing the classes into one class called pixels. We have a class diagram in our GitHub repository.
We decided to work on the program almost exclusively together while pair programing. We also used the atom teletype so we could both see the screen easily. We did a good job of splitting the navigating and the driving. Our project was well scoped, mostly because we designed it so it was easy but could be as hard as we made it. At any point we could say we had enough modes or continue to create more.
We chose to do small unit testing instead of doc tests because our program is visual thus it was easier to test by running it and seeing what the display was instead of seeing the (x,y) coordinates of the pixels being output. For this specific program this method worked well although we are wary of being lazy about doctests in the future.
